# IBM-Project-26767-1660036372
Real-Time River Water Quality Monitoring and Control System--

The environment around consists of five key elements e.g., soil, water, climate, natural vegetation, and landforms. Among these water is the utmost crucial element for human life. It is also vital for the persistence of other living habitats . Whether it is used for drinking, domestic use, and food production or recreational purposes, safe and readily available water is the need for public health . So it is highly imperative for us to maintain water quality balance. Otherwise, it would severely damage the health of the humans and at the same time affect the ecological balance among other species . Water pollution is a foremost global problem which needs ongoing evaluation and adaptation of water resource directorial principle at the levels of international down to individual wells. It has been studied that water pollution is the leading cause of mortalities and diseases worldwide. The records show that more than 14,000 people die daily worldwide due to water pollution. In many developing countries, dirty or contaminated water is being used for drinking without any proper prior treatment. One of the reasons for this happening is the ignorance of public and administration and the lack of water quality monitoring system which makes serious health issues . In this paper,we depict the design of Wireless Sensor Network (WSN) [4-7] that assists to monitor the quality of water with the support of information sensed by the sensors dipped in water. Using different sensors, this system can collect various parameters from water, such as pH, dissolved oxygen, turbidity, conductivity, temperature, and so on. The rapid development of WSN technology provides a novel approach to real-time data acquisition, transmission, and processing. The clients can get ongoing water quality information from far away. Now a day’s Internet of things (IoT) is an innovative technological phenomenon. It is shaping today’s world and is used in different fields for collecting, monitoring and analysis of data from remote locations. IoT integrated network if everywhere starting from smart cities, smart power grids, and smart supply chain to smart wearable [7- 12]. Though IoT is still under applied in the field of environment it has huge potential. It can be applied to detect forest fire and early earthquake, reduce air population, monitor snow level, prevent landslide, and avalanche etc. Moreover, it can be implemented in the field of water quality monitoring and controlling system . Water quality monitoring has gained more interest among researchers in this twenty-first century. Numerous works are either done or ongoing in this topic focusing on various aspects of it. The key theme of all the projects was to develop an efficient, cost-effective, real-time water quality monitoring system which will integrate wireless sensor network and internet of things . In this research, we monitor the physical and chemical parameters of water bodies  by using an IoT based sensor network. 
